Then he was brought before the king, and the king said, "You shall never
have my daughter unless in eight days you dig away the hill that stops
the view from my window." Now this hill was so big that the whole world
could not take it away: and when he had worked for seven days, and had
done very little, the fox came and said. "Lie down and go to sleep; I
will work for you." And in the morning he awoke and the hill was gone;
so he went merrily to the king, and told him that now that it was
removed he must give him the princess.

Then the king was obliged to keep his word, and away went the young man
and the princess; and the fox came and said to him, "We will have all
three, the princess, the horse, and the bird." "Ah!" said the young man,
"that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?"

"If you will only listen," said the fox, "it can be done. When you come
to the king, and he asks for the beautiful princess, you must say, “Here
she is!” Then he will be very joyful; and you will mount the golden
horse that they are to give you, and put out your hand to take leave of
them; but shake hands with the princess last. Then lift her quickly on
to the horse behind you; clap your spurs to his side, and gallop away as
fast as you can."

All went right: then the fox said, "When you come to the castle where
the bird is, I will stay with the princess at the door, and you will
ride in and speak to the king; and when he sees that it is the right
horse, he will bring out the bird; but you must sit still, and say that
you want to look at it, to see whether it is the true golden bird; and
when you get it into your hand, ride away."

This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the
princess mounted again, and they rode on to a great wood. Then the fox
came, and said, "Pray kill me, and cut off my head and my feet." But the
young man refused to do it: so the fox said, "I will at any rate give
you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows,
and sit down by the side of no river." Then away he went. "Well,"
thought the young man, "it is no hard matter to keep that advice."

He rode on with the princess, till at last he came to the village where
he had left his two brothers. And there he heard a great noise and
uproar; and when he asked what was the matter, the people said, "Two men
are going to be hanged." As he came nearer, he saw that the two men were
his brothers, who had turned robbers; so he said, "Cannot they in any
way be saved?" But the people said "No," unless he would bestow all his
money upon the rascals and buy their liberty. Then he did not stay to
think about the matter, but paid what was asked, and his brothers were
given up, and went on with him towards their home.

And as they came to the wood where the fox first met them, it was so
cool and pleasant that the two brothers said, "Let us sit down by the
side of the river, and rest a while, to eat and drink." So he said,
"Yes," and forgot the fox's counsel, and sat down on the side of the
river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him
down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went
home to the king their master, and said. "All this have we won by our
labour." Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not
eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.
